# AI Statement / Declaration

## How we used AI

When we began working on our project, we anticipated the tool we were building to be fairly complicated. This became very apparent to us when we began working on the code to automatically generate models for identifying taint sources and sanitizers. At first, we used keyword comparisons as the main heuristic. However, as we tested this initial approach, we realized that to ensure our tool worked well, we would need a much more robust and comprehensive analysis system. Working in such a limited time frame, we did not have the time or capacity to learn the full syntax of libraries such as Python's AST for analyzing the files, and some others that came in handy. Therefore, the primary use of AI in our project was to help us with code generation. The main AI tool that we used was ChatGPT. The prompts that we used were structured as follows: firstly, we would provide a brief explanation of what the function that we want to implement must achieve, then we provided abstract handwritten code for the overall structure, and told the AI to analyze if this approach would work, and if yes, to provide a working implementation of our envisioned function. This workflow was very productive for us, as it allowed us to remain in full control while avoiding the need to know the specific syntax for implementing these complex functions.

## Reflection on the use of AI

Overall, using the AI tool has been both frustrating but also very helpful. The frustrating part was when it would produce bad output that didn't work exactly as we wanted, or when it would completely overcomplicate certain implementations. For the project, we had to closely review all the answers and modify most of them, at least slightly, so they would work the way we wanted. Nonetheless, we believe that AI has been extremely helpful in helping us implement certain features quickly without needing to learn new syntax or the quirks of all the modules.
